# Wearable_ASL_Device

Includes device designs, scripts(Python, MATLAB, Arduino), Multisim circuits, circuit diagrams, final report, presentations(available upon reqest), Gannt chart.

We developed design skills to produce wearable American sign language device where the main concept was to have ring and fingernail devices emit and record IR waveform emissions with specific calculated frequency. We applied electrical engineering knowledge to create an IR LED data acquisition module, band pass filter, and IR wave generating module using chips, circuitry electronics, measurement, and power tools (e.g. oscilloscope, multimeter, power supply). We presented obtained data from an oscilloscope which showed how data was produced with specific frequency, data was collected using a data acquisition module, and data was filtered using bandpass filtering. We had specific functional specifications such as voltage limit, IR LED wavelength, and frequency generated by the IR LED emitting circuit. We researched and practiced safety and sustainability standards. We remained under the project budget and utilized Gannt and PERT charts for project management. I worked with NI Multisim to create and test circuit diagrams of IR wave-generating circuit, data acquisition module, and filtering module online before creating them in the lab. We created PCB circuit diagrams for the above-mentioned IR wave-generating circuit, IR data detection, and acquisition module. We simulated, tested, troubleshot, and tried alternative approaches for the three modules were creating using Falstad, NI Multisim, and TI online simulation tool. We soldered the circuit diagrams as SMD models and perforated board models after testing them on breadboards. The testing of the systems included having an IR wave-generating circuit emit IR waves at a specific frequency using a 5 V power input. Next, the IR data acquisition module recorded IR waves with specific frequencies and graphed data on an oscilloscope where captured frequency and voltage were observed. Active bandpass filtering module received acquired IR data, filtered out optical noise, and returned a filtered signal where frequency and voltage were analyzed. I learned team and project management, testing and troubleshooting electrical prototypes, regulations, and standards, presenting data and biweekly updates, finding alternative solutions, designing parts on SolidWorks, soldering, PCB soldering using SMD models, using NI Multisim for designing and testing circuit diagrams, etc.

Summary: Designed and built a wearable American Sign Language device prototype that leveraged infrared (IR) waveforms from ring and fingernail sensors with specific frequencies. Used NI Multisim, SolidWorks, SMD Models.
